Ilcm (#49)
GovTechSG/stackops-docs: watermark-limit.md

# Watermark limits

> Every node has only a specific amount of data storage capacity(threshold) and as the data of your logs and metrics continue to grow, they will quickly fill up the nodes and eventually the nodes will run out of disk space. This threshold is the watermark limit and is a very prominent issue 

Author: I have used "critical" 

Every node has only a specific amount of data storage capacity (threshold) and as the data of your logs and metrics continue to grow, they will quickly fill up the nodes and eventually the nodes will run out of disk space. This critical issue is also known as the watermark limit or watermark issues.

> ?> **Note**<br> Though there are many ways to manage the watermark issues, the best practice is to [Configure your Index Lifecycle Policy](/getting-started/ilcm?id=configure-index-life-policy).

Author: fixed this.

- [Impact of exceeding watermark limits](#impact-of-exceeding-watermark-limits)
- [View default values of the watermark limits](#view-the-default-values-of-various-watermark-settings)
- [Identify watermark issues](#identify-watermark-issues)
- [Resolve watermark issues](#resolve-watermark-issues)

?> **Note** For more information, refer to [Disk-based shard allocation](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/master/modules-cluster.html#disk-based-shard-allocation).

## Impact of the watermark limits

> As data fills up on your nodes, and reaches the watermark limits, you may experience the following:

Author: done

- Shards get unassigned leading to a disruption in the ingestion of logs and metrics.

- If you ignore the watermark limits for an extended period, Kibana can become inaccessible. 

Hence, it is critical to closely monitor and manage the watermark limits to prevent such issues and ensure the smooth operation of your system.

## View the default values of various watermark settings

> For StackOps users, by default, the watermark limit is between 85% - 90% and when the disk space reaches the threshold, you may start having issues. 

Author: noted, thanks!

> For StackOps users, by default, the watermark limit is between 85% - 90% and when the disk space reaches the threshold, you may start having issues. 

Author: Done.

> You may modify these values as required. For more information, refer to the Elastic documentation, [Fix watermark errors](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/master/fix-watermark-errors.html).

Author: noted, thanks!

**To view the default values of watermark settings**

1. Go to **Kibana** > **Management** > **Dev Tools**. 
2. Send a GET request to: ```_cluster/settings?flat_settings=true&include_defaults=true```. 

   You will see the default values of your watermark settings.

   The following is a sample output of this request which displays the low and high limits.

```   
"defaults": {
  "cluster.routing.allocation.disk.watermark.flood_stage": "95%",
  "cluster.routing.allocation.disk.watermark.flood_stage.frozen": "95%",
  "cluster.routing.allocation.disk.watermark.flood_stage.frozen.max_headroom": "20GB",
  "cluster.routing.allocation.disk.watermark.flood_stage.max_headroom": "100GB",
  "cluster.routing.allocation.disk.watermark.high": "90%",
  "cluster.routing.allocation.disk.watermark.high.max_headroom": "150GB",
  "cluster.routing.allocation.disk.watermark.low": "85%",
  "cluster.routing.allocation.disk.watermark.low.max_headroom": "200GB"
}
```

## Identify watermark issues

When the disk space reaches the watermark limits, you may start having issues.

**To identify watermark issues**

1. Go to **Kibana** > **Management** > **Dev Tools**. 

> 2. Send a GET request to: ```_cluster/allocation/explain```.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Run the command: ```GET _cluster/allocation/explain```.
```

Author: done.

>    If the output indicates that the node has less than the minimum required free space and if the **actual used** > **cluster.routing.allocation.disk.watermark.low** or **actual used** > **cluster.routing.allocation.disk.watermark.high**, it means you have a watermark issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If the output indicates that the node has **less than the minimum required free space** with **actual used > cluster.routing.allocation.disk.watermark.low** or **actual used > cluster.routing.allocation.disk.watermark.high**, it means you have a watermark issue.
```

      "decider": "disk_threshold"
    }
  ]
}
```

## Resolve watermark issues

There are multiple ways to resolve the watermark issues. However, in this article we focus on the following three ways:

- Delete indices
  - [Delete indices via Kibana](#delete-indices-via-kibana)
  - [Delete indices via API](#delete-indices-via-api)
- Move data to other tiers
  - [Move data to other tiers via Kibana](#move-data-to-other-tiers-via-kibana)
  - [Move data to other tiers via API](#move-data-to-other-tiers-via-api)
- [Increase disk space](#increase-disk-space)

### Delete indices via Kibana

![Delete indices](images/index-delete-kibana.png)

1. Go to **Kibana** > **Stack Management** > **Index Management**.
2. Ensure the **Include hidden indices** option is turned on to view all the indices.
3. Sort the indices by **Storage size**.
4. Select the checkbox corresponding to the indices to be deleted.
5. Click **Manage index**
6. Select **Delete index**.

### Delete Indices via API

1. Access your API Console by navigating to **Kibana** > **Management** > **Dev Tools**.

> 2. Send a GET request to ```_cat/shards?v=true&s=store```.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Run the command: ```GET _cat/shards?v=true&s=store```.
```

Author: done

   The following is a sample output of this request.

```
index                                                   shard prirep state      docs       store ip             node
.ds-metrics-system.process-2022.11.03-000001            0     p      STARTED     9487141   6.8gb 172.20.175.12  instance-0000000009
.ds-metrics-system.process-2022.11.03-000001            0     r      STARTED     9486669   6.8gb 172.20.171.180 instance-0000000000
.ds-logs-elastic_agent.filebeat-2022.11.03-000001       0     p      STARTED    43688088    19gb 172.20.171.180
```

> 3. Identify the shards with largest data by the **store** column.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Identify the largest shard in the **store** column.
```

Author: done

> 4. Identify the oldest shard by the **index** column.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Identify the oldest shard base on the date in the **index** column.
```

Author: done.
Identify the oldest shard based on the date in the **index** column.

> 5. To delete an index, enter ```DELETE <index>```.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Run the command: ```DELETE <index>```.
```

Author: Done.

   ?> Replace <index> with the index name.
   
   When you delete some of the indices, the watermark limit eventually disappears and your deployment will be back to healthy state.

### Move data to other tiers via Kibana

> 1. Identify the affected index and its policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Identify the affected index and its index lifecycle policy.
```

Author: done.
Identify the affected index and its Index Lifecycle Policy.

2. [Edit the policy](/getting-started/ilcm?id=configure-index-life-policy) attached to the affected index.
3. Take note of the original settings before proceeding further.
4. [Optional] If rollover is enabled, set **Maximum age** to *1 minute*.
    ![Move data to other tiers max age](images/move-data-to-other-tiers-maximum-age.png)

> 5. Set warm phase age to 1 minute by entering *1* for the **Move data into phase when** field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Set warm phase age to *1 minute* in the **Move data into phase when** field.
```

Author: done.

  ![Warm phase age](images/warm-phase-age.png)
6. Save the policy to start the Data Migration.
7. Verify the affected index's **Action status**.
  ![ilcm action status](images/ilm-trigger-action-status.png)

8. Set the policy back to its original settings.

### Move data to other tiers via API

1. Access your API Console by navigating to **Kibana** > **Management** > **Dev Tools**.

> 2. Send a GET request to ```_cat/shards?v=true&s=store```.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Run the command: ```GET _cat/shards?v=true&s=store```.
```

Author: done

  ?> For more information, refer to [Elasticsearch shard allocation](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/cat-shards.html).

  The following is a sample output:

  ```
  index                                                   shard prirep state      docs       store ip             node
  .ds-metrics-system.process-2022.11.03-000001            0     p      STARTED     9487141   6.8gb 172.20.175.12  instance-0000000009
  .ds-metrics-system.process-2022.11.03-000001            0     r      STARTED     9486669   6.8gb 172.20.171.180 instance-0000000000
  .ds-logs-elastic_agent.filebeat-2022.11.03-000001       0     p      STARTED    43688088    19gb 172.20.171.180 instance-0000000000
  .ds-logs-elastic_agent.filebeat-2022.11.03-000001       0     r      STARTED      43688088  19.3gb 172.20.175.12  instance-0000000009

  ```

> 3. From the output, if you intend to delete an **index**, we recommend you only to move the indices with the following configurations for **phase**, **action** and **step**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. From the output, if you intend to migrate an **index**, we recommend you only to move the indices with the following configurations for **phase**, **action** and **step**:
```

Author: done.

    - phase : hot, warm or cold
    - action : complete or rollover
    - step : complete or check-rollover-ready

> 4. To confirm the index configurations, send a GET request to ```<index>/_ilm/explain```.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. To check the index configurations, run the command: ```GET <index>/_ilm/explain```.
```

Author: I have changed it to "Verify" .

  Following is a sample output for this request:
```
  {
  
    "indices": {
      ".ds-metrics-kubernetes.pod-default-2023.04.25-000027": {
        "index": ".ds-metrics-kubernetes.pod-default-2023.04.25-000027",
        "time_since_index_creation": "35.75d",
        "managed": true,
        "phase_execution": {
          "policy": "metrics",
          "modified_date_in_millis": 1673577178981,
          "phase_definition": {
            "actions": {
              "rollover": {
                "max_age": "30d",
                "max_size": "50gb"
              }
            },
            "min_age": "0ms"
          },
          "version": 3
        },
        "action_time_millis": 1685007828266,
        "age": "5.74d",
        "step_time_millis": 1685007828266,
        "phase_time_millis": 1682415312252,
        "index_creation_date_millis": 1682415297505,
        "phase": "hot",
        "step": "complete",
        "lifecycle_date_millis": 1685007749896,
        "policy": "metrics",
        "action": "complete"
      }
    }
  }
  ```

  For more information, refer to https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/ilm-move-to-step.html.

> 5. If the index configuration matches our recommendation, you may move the index. To move the index, send a POST request to ```/<index>/_ilm/move```.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. If the index configuration matches our recommendation, you may move the index. 
Run the command: 
```
Add below code, the command is together, not separate.
```
POST /<index>/_ilm/move
{
  "current_step": {
    "phase": "hot",
    "action": "rollover",
    "name": "check-rollover-ready"
  },
  "next_step": {
    "phase": "warm"
  }
}
```

Author: Done

   ?> Replace <index> with the index name.

   Following is the sample output of this request:
  ```
  {

>     "current_step": {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This is not a sample output but the actual command

      "phase": "hot",
      "action": "rollover",
      "name": "check-rollover-ready"
    },
    "next_step": {
      "phase": "warm"
    }
  }
  ```

> 5. To verify if the index is being moved, send a GET request to ```_cat/shards?v=true&s=store```.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. To verify if the index is being moved, run the command: ```GET _cat/shards?v=true&s=store```.
```

Author: Done

        "phase_execution": {
          "policy": "metrics",
          "modified_date_in_millis": 1673577178981,
          "phase_definition": {
            "actions": {
              "rollover": {
                "max_age": "30d",
                "max_size": "50gb"
              }
            },
            "min_age": "0ms"
          },
          "version": 3
        },
        "action_time_millis": 1685007828266,
        "age": "5.74d",
        "step_time_millis": 1685007828266,
        "phase_time_millis": 1682415312252,
        "index_creation_date_millis": 1682415297505,
        "phase": "hot",
        "step": "complete",
        "lifecycle_date_millis": 1685007749896,
        "policy": "metrics",
        "action": "complete"
      }
    }
  }
  ```

  ?> For more information, refer to https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/ilm-move-to-step.html.

5. If the index configuration matches our recommendation, you may move the index.
6. Run the following command:

    ```
    POST /<index>/_ilm/move
    {
      "current_step": {
      "phase": "hot",
      "action": "rollover",
      "name": "check-rollover-ready"
      },
      "next_step": {

>       "phase": "warm"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      "phase": "<next phase>"
```

Author: should i mention Replace <next phase> with warm/cold/frozen.

Author: done

**To identify watermark issues**

1. Go to **Kibana** > **Management** > **Dev Tools**. 
2. Run the command:
  ```
  GET _cluster/allocation/explain
  ```

  If the output indicates that the node has **less than the minimum required free space** with **actual used > cluster.routing.allocation.disk.watermark.low** or **actual used > cluster.routing.allocation.disk.watermark.high**, it means you have a watermark issue.

  The following is a sample output that indicates you have a watermark issue.

> ```

Reviewer: Is it possible to align this code snippet under 2. Run the command: 
If not, can try making a point 3 with this

```suggestion
3. If the output indicates that the node has **less than the minimum required free space** with **actual used > cluster.routing.allocation.disk.watermark.low** or **actual used > cluster.routing.allocation.disk.watermark.high**, it means you have a watermark issue.
```

Author: done

  }
  ```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
?> Take note of the following values for phase, action, step.
```

Author: done

  ?> For more information, refer to https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/ilm-move-to-step.html.

5. If the index configuration matches our recommendation, you may move the index.
6. Run the following command:

    ```
    POST /<index>/_ilm/move
    {
      "current_step": {

>       "phase": "hot",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      "phase": "<phase>",
```

Author: done

>       "action": "rollover",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      "action": "<action>",
```

Author: done

>       "name": "check-rollover-ready"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      "name": "<step>"
```

Author: Done

      },
      "next_step": {
      "phase": "warm"
      }
    }
    ```

>   ?> Replace <index> with the index name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ?> Replace <index> with the index name.
  ?> Replace <phase>, <action>, <step> with what was identified in point 4
```

Author: Done
